[Music]
You have some even type processor.
Yeah, the Eclipse that I got from a friend of mine, Mariana, years ago for like half price.
And fucking, that thing's amazing.
A lot of the stuff we were playing today was running through that at points.
Oh, nice, nice.
It's on a crate.
Yeah, that's a hell of a processor.
I always wanted either an Eclipse or like the old school H3000s and shit.
Oh yeah, for like local processing.
But what do you use it for primarily like run beats through it?
Yeah, beats since everything.
It's on an aux send from the desk.
So a lot of stuff goes through it.
But yeah, things can you go through once?
You can do a mono, but it's stereo and stereo out.
Okay.
It's the H8000 has like two pairs of stereo outs.
And then this new 9000 has like eight ends and eight outs.
Nice.
Yeah, it seems ridiculous.
What were you running through earlier today?
A modular, my modular signal, your modular signal.
Oh, nice.
That's pretty much it.
Oh, cool.
Yeah, it helps to glue, well it can glue sounds together kind of if you have them run through
the same processor obviously.
But do a little of that.
I feel like that's what I'm lacking in now.
I don't have any, aside from like a million different distortions.
I don't have like a processor proper, you know?
Yeah, because clouds isn't that.
No, it's like it can be.
I've used it for that.
Yeah, but it's not that.
Yeah.
And I used to have the old boss shit.
Like I had the SE70 and all that stuff.
But that's gone now.
I had a couple things that I sold to because I just wasn't too thrilled with them.
I had that fireworks.
Oh, right.
That thing sucked.
It was a TC electronic.
I think it was TC electronic.
Yeah, I think so.
It was just like a processor, you know what I mean?
But it just didn't get me where I needed, you know what I mean?
Like it had very unlimited processing power.
Like you could get granular with its little like, you know, digital module things.
Like you'd get into the OS and set things up.
And just when I started to get things like where I'd like to be, it would run out of
juice and I couldn't add more things to it.
I'm just like, fuck this.
You know, it was real annoying.
Yeah, the eclipse is cool too because it loads all the pedals, like all their eventide
pedals.
You can just load any of the presets like right from there.
Nice.
A lot of more taken from that and put into like the space pedal, like the echo space of
God or whatever preset or something like a lot of like the black hole preset.
No, the black hole wall.
Yeah.
Okay.
And they kind of ported it over to that pedal.
H9 to the things fucking awesome.
The white one.
The little white guy.
I didn't know yet.
Oh yeah.
That's actually what I was just looking at recently.
I highly recommend it.
Yeah.
It sounds just as good as their act is.
What's all in that aside from reverb?
Does it have other shit?
Everything.
You load all those pedal presets.
There's the core one.
There's the mid grade one and then like the maxed out one.
Okay.
The mid grade one, that's what I got.
It comes with like four presets and they're like 20 bucks a pop when you get them through
the store or whatever.
But they just, they have a deal right now that I'm probably going to do where I can
max out my shit for like half the price.
So it would be like 150 bucks instead of 300 bucks for me just to have it like everything.
And then from that point when you max it out, you get everything for free in the future.
What's the difference between one and one of those little guys or like the big.
Um, it's, there are more parameter.
Well, there are probably more parameters.
It's a little nicer to edit the rack because you can just be like, oh this and then turn
the knob.
Whereas that like the pedals, you got a page through it.
Okay.
So it has the app, which is pretty sweet.
Um, and I think it's Android or iOS and then you can just edit like you can see everything
from here.
It hooks up with a Bluetooth, change all the shit right here.
It's just really nice.
It's like, it's real easy to use like, and this is like the morphing between preset, but
you kind of like the Nord modular does with the morphing and the presets.
It's actually easier on the device itself.
It's like the hot knob.
It has like one knob or something.
Yeah, it has a one knob.
And on the iPad, it's like a lot of looks just like their space of the time factor pedals.
It's like the same format kind of.
Yeah, because I've been seen there was a lot in like modular videos lately.
A lot of people run and shit through them.
And I didn't even know what it was.
I mean, it had one knob and I was like, oh, I'll give a fuck about whatever that is.
But then I started to hear like, you know, I watched like a couple, not like demos of
the unit, but just demos of other shit running through it.
And I'm like, well, that sounds good.
No, it's like, what is this thing?
And the expression inputs zero to five volt.
Okay.
So I'm going to modulate it with a modular.
Nice.
And how many like modulation inputs does that like just one?
Okay.
Yeah.
That's better than none.
I mean, I don't know.
But you have to make sure it's like rectified.
You don't want to go bipolar with it.
So there's a audio dam.
It's slow.
That's some video of like, here's this really simple circuit you can make or something.
It's actually just a cable with a, I forget, it's some like kind of hack to make it only
positive voltage, whatever signal you shoot into it.
Or you can just deal with it in the modular interest.
Yeah.
Another thing for me to spend fucking money on.
The cool thing is that like when you max it out or whatever, if you buy the maxed out
one, if you buy the cheap one, if you get another one, it has like all your presets.
So it's like you can buy the cheap ones in and they have everything still.
So it's kind of like, it's not just a shady scheme.
Like if you want multiples of them, which I could see having it other for sure.
I use it directly on the blow felt right now because the blow felt effects suck.
Yeah.
So it makes the machine glitch out when you use them.
So is it a, is it road worthy?
Is it something you can take out?
Oh yeah.
You could throw it down the steps and it would be fine.
That's fine.
That's how I test all the gear.
Throw it down the fucking steps.
Oh yeah, it broke.
Nah, I got a cold sweet water.
Sweet water has just blocked your number.
Dude, stop throwing shit down the steps.
I got the analog for the electron and then returned to the next day and the dude was
all pissed off because like the packaging was fucked up and I didn't really fuck up the
packaging.
It was however it came to me.
I didn't like do anything shitty to it.
He was just jagged off that like they, you know, if you do it in 30 days, you get the
full price back.
You just paid shipping and I was like, I don't like the sound of this fucking thing.
First he was trying to give me a hard time, but you know, he caved.
Wait, after I threatened the life of his children.
What was, like what was his argument?
You don't like it.
Oh yeah.
He was just pissed off that he lost a sale.
Gotcha.
So he was like, I'm like, I'm like, you know what sounds better than...
Is there something else you want?
Like no, dude.
You don't know me.
Like no, yeah, I'll take that fucking, you know, JDXI or whatever, the rolling thing.
And I don't want your rolling guy, I swear.
No disrespect to that, Sam.
But now imagining the electron has like a Glen Gary Glen Ross type of thing.
Alec Baldwin is just yelling at that guy.
Coffee's for the closers.
They beat that dude sound play that day.
So what other topics do we want to talk about?
Because that's beating sales representatives.
It's the sales of the represent.
Do we just want to, before we dive into like individual shit, do like anything that we
considered our favorites from 2016, like personal shit?
I think right off the bat, I would say my favorite of 2016 was the Stilson hammer.
Yeah.
Oh, I thought you were going to say the fuzz factory.
Nope.
Okay.
So it was alright to make your case for the Stilson hammer.
I don't know.
It was exactly kind of what I was looking for.
You know what I mean?
Before I even knew what Stilson was capable of, it's kind of what I was looking for out
of a Euro rack sequencer.
I like how easy it is to dial shit in on it.
All the sliders.
I like the fact that you have multiple tracks that you can clock divide down to 32.
I like the fact that you can just randomize not only the whole sequence, but elements of
it.
It was the sequencer I wanted.
Yeah.
Now, it's a play devil's advocate.
You don't have it now.
Not currently.
What was it?
You need to get rid of it.
Rack space?
I didn't have enough for it, but now that I have the Mantis case and I was able to move
some bigger shit to that, I have the rack real estate again for a big sequence or module.
So it wasn't some deficiency?
Like, you know, not at all.
I liked it.
I just, at the time, I was doing more percussive shit and I had the very gate and I was like,
I don't need this right this second.
So I just got rid of it until I was going to expand my rack.
I wasn't sure how I was going to expand it, but I was just planning on doing it.
Then, like, a month after I sold it, the Mantis case came out and I was like, okay, problem
solved.
Now that I have the space, yeah, I'm going to get it back as soon as possible because
I need my sequencing.
Yes.
I have it.
Yeah.
And I don't know.
I fucked with a lot of different sequencers over the years and I don't think none of them
were so instantly gratifying as Distelson was, you know what I mean?
It's just like, at least for the shit that I do, you know what I mean?
I'm not doing Tangerine Dream.
You know what I mean?
I'm using my sequencer to spit out weird random rhythmically sequences or as just strange
modulations, sources for other modules, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
And I feel like it's perfect for it.
What would that put you up as far as a number of sequencers you have?
You've got the Verigate, you've got the Metropolis.
Metropolis.
Yeah, so that'll be, that'll be sequencer three.
I like the Verigate but it just doesn't cut it for CV sequencing in my opinion.
It's powerhouse of a gate sequencer and that's what I use it for.
Yeah.
I think the two CV tracks on it are a nice bonus but not something that I use very much
or fulfills all my sequencing needs, I would say.
Right, yeah.
Metropolis, like I was talking earlier, it does one style of sequencing very well and
not much else, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
So I think the Stilson will fill in all the gaps that I have currently in my system.
Yeah, the Fuss factory, nice runner up but I wouldn't consider it one of my tops of the
year.
I mean it already existed as a pedal and I have a lot of other distortions.
This is a great distortion module but it wasn't all that mind blowing or innovative.
You know what I mean?
I'm trying to play on the name but it's a little guy with a little...
A promo blob.
Yes, yeah.
A promo blob?
Yeah.
It's a delay.
It doesn't blow me away.
It's cool.
I can't remember if that actually came out this year.
That might have been late 2015.
I don't think anyone's going to hold our feet to the fire there with that.
It will.
Okay.
We're going to get flamed.
Yeah.
If we are then, if we're going to be a little naughty with that.
If we're going to bend space time continuum here, I'll say that my second runner up then
would be the circuit bent VCO.
Oh yeah.
E390 by Synthesis Technology.
Yeah, I think that thing's fucking great.
It released in December, late December 2015.
I didn't get mine until 2016 so we'll say it counts.
That was enough.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can just get fucking ridiculously absurd sounds out of that thing.
I mean, it's a vocal synthesis.
You can't just group it.
Yeah.
I mean, it's a speech synthesis thing but you know, I don't know.
You can get a lot more out of it than just that.
You know what I mean?
You start hitting that thing with all kinds of CV.
Looking forward to getting the expansion.
Yeah.
I've tried to get it twice so far and each time it sold out.
Oh wow.
Like control mod.
Yeah.
And I don't really, like we were just discussing earlier.
I don't like doing the whole pre-order thing so I've just been waiting for it to get back
and stock proper and I'll get it then.
Have you thought about offering to do demos of that but in the way that you would do it?
Because when he does it, there are great demos but they're very like, oh it's speaking
spell.
It has that vibe to it.
You can just sit there and when he's done, just go, all right well and here's the other
shit you can do with it.
Yeah.
And then go nuts and make it sound like hell.
I mean it does rise.
It does rise.
Right.
Why are you doing this?
It's not how you do it.
Supposed to say emergency.
Yeah.
Yeah the expanding I think is going to be dope though from what I can tell.
I mean I was kind of already using the times for it in clouds and shit to make it do that
style of like looping, stuttering shit anyways but it would be nice to have the screen telling
you, you know, all that information.
Yeah.
What you're working with and all that jazz.
It's a nice expansion.
It looks like you put a lot of thought behind it.
But yeah, that's my 2016 favorites.
All right.
Am I up?
Well, all right.
Well, we can quickly go through mine because I got almost nothing in 2016.
So unless you want to, unless you want me to go at length about how great that two HP
envelope generator is.
Hey.
It's actually really nice but I can only say so many words about an envelope generator.
That was your knob con purchase, right?
It was, yeah.
It's, I mean all kidding aside, I really do use the shit off it and it's amazing for
the two HP but it is not very sexy at all.
So that's how the LFO kind of is.
Like it does, it's got a reset input, CV input and output for the LFO and actually gate out
too.
No.
For that's what I want an LFO to be.
It's got basic waveforms.
And it's a, it's taken up a polite amount of space.
Yeah.
I don't need a shitload of space for something that's, you know, doing a bread and butter
utility thing.
Right.
Yeah.
Same thing with that LFO.
Like you don't, you're not going to fuck with it too much.
You know.
Maybe a little.
But yeah, that's a, it's a very anticlimactic 2016 purchase.
There might have been something late 2015 I got.
I can't remember that far back.
Yeah.
It is harder to remember that.
For me, like I think at the beginning of, of last year of 2016 I was about to throw like
my whole modular out the fucking window because I just wasn't using it much.
Now I use it all the time and I'm pretty psyched about that.
Walk two, I think it's a tie for me would be a varigate in Polaris Polaris.
Fuck, that's great filter like I don't know.
That's one of the most versatile filters I've ever used to make it get all over the place.
You're going to sell Greg on that because I think he hates it.
Yeah.
All three that I'm looking at right now.
And varigate actually, it took me a minute.
I wasn't, I wasn't super sold in the varigate at first.
And now like I don't really think about it which is kind of my gauge for a sequencer.
I just wanted to kind of get out of the way and I'm getting much more familiar with it
now.
But you know I have some, I'd like it a little more maybe if it was six gate channels and
four CV like that would probably do the trick for me not that I don't use all of them.
And you know, editing notes on it isn't the most fun because it's hard to see where the
note was set at and it's just a little fiddly and you're trying to look on that bar graph
that might be obscured by a bunch of cables or something.
You know, but on the whole it does, it does the trick.
It didn't, it all for me when I was out calibration.
When he told me the secret calibration trick, then everything fell together.
It reminds me of the machine drum a little just in, I use the CV outs for just parameter
sequencing a lot, you know.
So the voltage block is interesting in that way, but I don't think, I don't think I'll
go for the voltage block.
I don't really have the space for it.
How much HP is the voltage block?
I think it's like 20 maybe or something.
It's not small.
It's E.A.
I look back.
Yeah, might be the same as that actually, which that's probably like 24 something.
And I definitely think it's like comparable and so maybe a little bit smaller.
I don't know if I need that much CV sequencing, I can get a lot of that just using the MIDI
box and MIDI to CV converter and just like CC's to get like, you know, sequences of
like parameter modulation and shit, but yeah, fair gate and Polaris would probably be
it for me.
I don't even know if Polaris come out this year or was it last year?
I think it was last year.
Yeah, it's pretty new.
Yeah, I mean, Intel did that whole block and new shit, but they all came out at different
times.
They were all announced like at the same time.
So I came out and Polaris was the first thing that dropped.
Like the micro MIDI that was part of it.
Yeah, the little U MIDI compression module.
Oh yeah, jelly squatcher, jelly squatcher.
That's it.
And the one box stereo thing.
Yeah, they dropped like all that pretty much around the same time, but then like the releases
were kind of staggered.
So yeah, because Rainmaker was not out until that was late.
Yeah, yeah.
And that was announced at the same time too.
I think all that was the weird thing with the Polaris was that it didn't really get
much fanfare.
Like, yeah, when all that stuff got released, like the Polaris wasn't even like it wasn't
included.
You know what I mean?
And like the announcements, I just like refreshed their page one time and saw that it was there.
I was like, what the fuck is this?
I was like, this looks like a nice filter.
And it's cool.
You know, I guess compared to like the announcement of the Rainmaker and all that jazz kind of
fell to the wayside a bit.
But yeah, I agree.
It's a hell of a filter.
That's another comment on my top two.
You can't have those two modules in the same case together.
What's that?
Because it's kind of you're going to hear every bit of that varigate LED noise through
that Polaris.
Oh yeah.
Like it doesn't.
It affects yours right now.
But for me, like it was, it fucking drove me crazy.
Mine not so much right now, but I have noticed with other shit and especially since I put
the trash master in there, I will hear the noise through the trash master.
I guess it's just a common problem with filters in general when it makes certain digital
things like, I've noticed a lot of bleeding and things like that.
Like all the bubble sound stuff you can hear that varigate in there.
The thing will shit out a lot of radio frequency.
One of them was worse than others of my three.
Yeah.
I can't remember which one one of them was bleeding a little more.
It's kind of weird.
I know people complain.
You pointed me to those threads.
People complain about noise in the Polaris modules too.
Just the digital.
Yeah.
So we got the distortion.
But yeah, also the similar.
Of course, I don't think I need to like talk about that module much anymore and it's
awesomeness.
Yeah.
I talked about how we all dig it in a previous episode.
But oh shit.
That reminds me.
I got the little carrot.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I did something else I bought in 2016.
I don't know if it actually.
Yeah.
That's new.
I think I'm almost sure.
I'm almost sure.
Close enough.
I'm counting that.
We're recounting it.
Yeah.
I'm counting that.
Counted.
Yeah.
All right.
Bitbox too.
Bitbox.
I was a heavy runner up there.
Talk about that.
Yeah.
That was exactly what it says for the most part.
I can't get the MIDI part to work.
I don't know if it's the cable that I got off eBay that's supposed to work like, you
know, it uses the TRS Mini Jack like MIDI stuff as one of the clock options.
I always do the analog clock from my MIDI to CV converter because it seems like it's
more consistent that way.
And if you want to use it to loop, that works a little better that way.
So the MIDI clock that didn't work out so well for me, maybe something's wrong there.
But some UI things that could be ironed out for sure.
I know it's the first release of the firmware basically.
There are no updates yet, but there's a good list of stuff that seems reasonable.
Like, you can't use folders to dig into the samples.
Everything's got to be on the root folder right now.
Okay.
Which is so you got to scroll through hundreds, literally the samples if you want a lot of
stuff on that bank.
It seems like hopefully you can get folders working on that.
Some other little things like when you go to switch the output, you can only switch like
for a whole column of tracks to send it to the FX1 or FX2 output.
So you've got to go to the track setup and then assign that there.
It would be nice if you could just do it like any sample cell could go to any output.
I'm not sure why it's limited to the columns like that.
It seems like he's like, oh yeah, we could eventually change that.
He's very responsive on the muff forum about requests that people have.
Other little stuff would be cool if you could actually see what output that column was going
to on the main screen if it was like a one or two, but it's not.
You have to go like three or four button presses back to be like, oh yeah, that's assigned
to FX2 or something.
So if you want to re-patch it something to work with a preset that you made, you kind
of got to do some digging to go back.
And there's enough screen real estate for you to actually put that number on there.
They're like empty button slots.
It's not the things like you can only change some menu items with the knob instead of just
hitting like the section of the pad itself.
Like it's touch screen for people that don't know.
But it's a touch screen module and it's really sensitive too.
You can play beats on the touch screen like not that you don't want to do that all the
time, but it works really well in that regard.
The looping I've had partial success with.
I mean, it doesn't work as well as Ableton works for me as far as looping, which is like
sample accurate and pretty damn perfect.
You can tell when you record something and then play it back against that channel.
It like flanges a little bit constantly and not within the loop either.
It's like drifting over time.
It's gorgeous.
It'll do the trick, but I don't know if it would be like a little portable Ableton like
I thought it would be like for a live set.
It might be able to get it to work that way.
I think especially, and I even took like a perfectly cut loop from my test like from Ableton.
Like all right, 128 BPM loop or whatever, cut it perfectly, put it in there.
Now set up a sequence that's 128 being driven from my sync gen, which is like perfect like
midi clock basically, try to line it up against that.
That's when I heard the phasing.
I'm like, all right, there's something a little off here.
And even when you reset it, it kind of resets a little slowly.
Like when you hit it with a reset, well, actually it doesn't have a reset input.
It yeah, it when it stops receiving clock, it knows after like a little bit.
It's like, oh, this is done.
And the next time I get a clock, I'm going to reset everything, which does work like
well enough.
Okay.
But one thing about it, it's always running the clock on it in the upper left.
There's a little like bar and beat count or it's just measures that have it gone by.
Yeah.
I don't know why you didn't have a reset input on it.
That's a really cool thing that the orthogonal 301, their sampler does is any of the gate
inputs can be used as a reset, which would be like a really nice feature to have.
Like why don't you have anything reset that?
Sure.
So hopefully the hardware is like robust enough that he's not limited by a bunch of stuff.
Like, oh, no, you can't possibly do that.
Because he even someone, he didn't seem to balk at like using the inputs as outputs too.
But even if a, you know, the stereo output, it would be cool if you could use those as
two monos as well.
You can't do that right now.
So you have four outputs instead of two, which I could get down with because I'm not
putting much stereo stuff in there.
I've sampled some cloud stuff in there, but you know, that point if you're looping stereo,
it can get, you got twice the chance of it being out of phase or clicks or something
like that when you're looping it around.
But sounds awesome.
The quality of it's great.
You don't get much CV input.
You get start and length, which works, which is great.
You know, you get pitch to what you get, like plus or minus 12, semi tones.
So like an octave up and an octave down.
And then you get the ability to trigger an entire column of stuff at one time with the
CV input.
So that's kind of a cool feature.
Other choices for the pitch algorithm or like, there's just one.
There's just one.
Do you know what it is?
No, that's a good question.
But no, it'd be, it does no time stretching or anything like that.
Just simple pitch.
It sounds good enough.
It's working out really well for me, especially once I move my own sample set into it, but
then it makes you want like, oh, I want, you know, I'm almost glad it only has three
kind of outputs because it makes you want a full chain of stuff to process through all
that.
So generally I have one going into clouds, maybe, you know, dual input on clouds or just one
that's like maybe through a filter and then back out to a mixing desk so I can put effects
on it, something like that.
And that's why 10 10.
Yeah, 10 10 music.
I think it's their, I think it's their only module.
Right on.
But I hope he keeps it going.
I don't think he'll go too crazy like the orthogonal devices sampler.
It seems like that dude is going to go nuts for years on that thing.
And you can even replace the CPU on that.
It's like a totally modular setup.
So when that new CPU version comes out, you just plug it into the back of the module and
you get more horsepower and more sampling space and stuff, which is like pretty brilliant
setup.
So I still have some strong lust for that 301, but it is, it's like $880 to get it from Japan.
Yeah, as a door kind of seems like apples and oranges, different stuff in the spectrum
there.
But it makes me like the thing has, you know, CV controlled effects that you can put in chains,
like kind of unlimited until you run out of horsepower, it seems.
So it's tempting, but I don't know.
Can you get them right now?
Yeah.
That thing seemed more like the modular version of an octa track, whereas like the bitbox is
like the modular version of like an NPC.
Exactly.
That's a good way to put it.
So the looping, I don't know, I need to play with that a little more.
But right now just is like, you know, you have 16 samples in your modular that you can
trigger.
That sound awesome.
And it's like 496, like it's not hard to be mad at that.
Yeah.
And the modulation with the start and length is cool.
You can get that kind of, you know, I would always use Ableton granulator for that kind
of like stuttery draw.
Yeah.
I'm a big fan of that, but yeah, yeah, I would do shit like that, you know, in conjunction
with like time stretching, because then you can get a little more gnarly and shit with
it.
But it seems to be kind of like what I'm using the Taurus for now.
You know what I mean?
But I really need, needed a looper for live shit too.
So yeah.
It's a hell of a pair with the varigate.
They kind of, you know, work very well together.
You can trigger all those samples with it.
And it's just been using the hell out of those too.
I kind of wish it was a little deeper at points, but as far as like selling the Octatrack and
getting that.
No regrets at all.
I was not using it for his music.
Yeah.
No, I use this like, I use this shit in music all the time now.
And before that, I was not like, I was kind of struggling to integrate my modular, especially
since I got rid of Renee.
I always forget that you got rid of that.
Yeah.
A while ago.
So I thought that was your jam.
At one point, I was going to get it back and then tried the varigate instead.
And pretty happy with that so far.
I could see you having both for sure, but not anytime soon.
So you think you're going to keep the varigate?
Yeah.
Absolutely.
I mean, I love the shit out of the varigate for.
Yeah.
I just wanted it to be 16 steps instead of eight.
That was my only complaint with it.
No.
But this thing, yeah, it's beast.
I use a lot of the channels in your ways, even though I don't have as many drum modules
currently, which I guess that could help me segue into the drum boot.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Like I was, it's been such a fucking hit or miss in my opinion with drum modules.
Like some of them are not deep enough.
Some of them are just trying to be everything in one.
You know what I mean?
It's hard to find a good middle ground, which I guess why I like the solen loose so much
you know what I mean?
The ultra version, I feel like it's solid as fuck.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Does what it does very well.
And it sounds unique.
You know what I mean?
There's so many drum modules out there that are just trying to do the whole, I don't
know, like the way you think.
Right.
There's enough of a market out there for people who are looking for exactly that sound.
Yeah.
I mean, they can plug it in.
It's not super expensive, but they're also not going to get lost in a million features
and they're getting that sound that they want.
At this point, we don't need another one of those.
That's modular.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
You know what I mean?
That's well covered.
I guess some people do, but they're just not what I wanted out of my modular.
You know what I mean?
I want to say I'm able to craft something different.
So yeah, at the moment, I don't have too many drum modules again, but I did get the drum
brute for the price of a drum module.
Yeah.
And I'm trying to integrate it, like I was explaining, into the modular.
You know, I mean, utilize all the individual voice outs and run them through the modular
for processing.
Yeah, you were saying you got those two modules for bringing it up to a module level?
Yeah, I can't remember what it's called, but it's from LADIC.
They're on the way.
They haven't arrived yet, unfortunately.
But yeah, they're just little pre-ent modules to take something from line to modular level.
And so with the pair, I'll have eight pre-amps, basically, for pretty much each voice on there.
Well, usually the voices that you would want to use.
Right.
Because some of them are a little flaky, as you heard the hats.
Yeah, the hats.
That was disappointing.
And some of them are kind of nice, like the kick and the clap.
Yeah.
I don't know, I like those.
And it got the zap.
Zaps good.
Zaps amazing.
People were hating on the zap, but I think it's fantastic.
It's a nice app.
It can be better.
There's room for improvement on the zap.
Does that have individual track lengths?
Yes.
That's awesome.
You have to do mild menu diving to enable that.
It's called polyrhythm mode, basically.
You can't just do it by default.
I guess they didn't want people getting confused.
So you have to do a shift and then hit the polyrhythm button, which I think is sequence
step 16.
We'll enable it.
And then you can have individual track lengths.
So it's always quantized.
Like you can't report on quantized?
There's a mode that unquantized record.
Oh, so you can even do it completely off the grid?
Yeah.
I don't know how far off the grid it will go, but yeah, you can do it on quantized.
Oh, that's cool.
I think that just might be when you're tapping shit in or something.
Like I haven't fucked with it on quantized too much.
But yeah, there is a way to get into unquantized mode and there is a way to do what they call
in between the steps.
You know what I mean?
That's awesome.
It's really attractive.
It's like per step swing, basically.
That's awesome.
You can do individual track swing too, which is cool.
But yeah, I forget.
It's a hold key combo, basically.
And then you use the swing knob while you're holding down like that step and you'll kind
of get it off the grid.
It's awesome.
Yeah, it's kind of cool.
That's really appealing.
Yeah, I mean, for the fucking price, dude, I was like, this thing's worth it, you know,
especially the price I paid for it.
It's a good price if it didn't make fucking audio.
Yeah, yeah.
It's still hell of a super long.
It's like a beat step.
Is that not comparable to the beat step price?
Yeah, it's like 200 or something.
It's essentially the beat step under the hood there.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I'm sure it is.
Probably exactly.
It's cool.
I'm digging it just not the sounds of certain voices, you know, but then again, that's what
processing is for.
Yeah.
So it looks cool.
They did a pretty good job with the design of it.
Yeah.
I'm using it as a big outboard drum, basically, with a nice...
It would have been nice to have like individual inputs, you know what I mean?
It's a trigger that tracks too, but does it look like you could maybe expand it later
with that option or is it like, is it doubtful?
The back's pretty filled.
Okay.
With all the individual outs and then the different clocks, you can do some nifty shit
with it too though.
Like the metronome has an individual output also.
Like everything has an individual out.
You can adjust the metronome to be a certain time signature.
Like the default is one four.
I've been leaving it at that because that is essentially now a divided clock for me.
Yeah.
Right.
So I'm just going to do a little bit of a shit in a modular.
Is it a square wave or is it like a pulse?
I'm not sure.
I haven't actually listened to it.
I've just been using it as a clock.
You can have the analog clock coming out of it and then you've got your metronome, which
is essentially you can have that as a divided clock to whatever.
Yeah.
You can do like one eight.
I don't know how many more drum models I'll be buying in the near future.
You know, if I can get this thing to fulfill my needs, doing that and the rhythm and everything
else going on.
I think that was a solid release by them.
Because I think that's like DR110 circuits in there.
So I think I saw the Dinsink guy was like kind of throwing that some shade because he
was like, enjoy my circuits kind of thing.
Really?
Exactly what I built.
But he didn't make that either.
So I don't know.
In the drum brew?
Yeah.
Really.
I think so.
Okay.
See, I had no idea what it was based off of.
I wasn't sure.
Do you imagine a noise engineering drum machine?
I mean, I'm kind of trying to build one.
Yeah.
Like I'm trying to get there.
I hope the hell he releases more drum stuff.
That fucking Pico drum.
Oh yeah.
And the Pico DSP.
Yeah.
Those are awesome.
Yeah, they do.
If I'm going to get more drum modules, probably going to be one or two of those in the foreseeable
future.
There's like 64 samples on that drum.
Yeah.
And you can load it with whatever the hell you want.
It can play two at once.
Oh yeah.
And you get one.
So it's essentially two and one.
Like over two of them or something like that.
Something like that.
Yeah.
But you got two trigger ends, two outputs.
The big DSP that they released, I was like, yeah, you know, I already got a ZDSP and all
that stuff.
But having that much different effect functionality and 3 HP and stereo output.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
I'm on that.
Stereo too.
Yeah.
Fuck.
There you go.
I'm on the train too.
Yeah.
I wanted at least two of them to run like the drum root through.
You know what I mean?
Two different voices through once.
I love shitty sounding reverbs almost as much as distortion.
You know what I mean?
And fortunately I don't have much hardware that does that.
Like most of that is still software for me.
Yeah.
You know.
A lot of the hardware stuff is clean.
Like super clean.
How clean could I get this?
Like the clips that's like the haven tied stuff super clean.
But the and sonic deep before that I have that's like a dirty motherfucker.
I think that's that's like got some nasty reverbs.
I usually have like a short room reverb or a plate on that thing with some other stuff
because you can like chain them.
But you know you have the ASR acts that think is the same effects basically.
We've discussed what we liked that came out in 2016.
We can discuss our disappointment.
Oh yeah.
Disappointments in 2016.
Well you were I remember you were fired up for the Rainmaker and then whenever you got
to play with one you were.
I think it would take a long time to learn it and for what it can do.
It's huge.
It's probably cool but it wasn't like oh man I need to like that's the kind of thing
that I need.
Yeah.
I'm going to be able to kind of it and it's a hell of a hell of a large module.
I'm sure there's good stuff in it but maybe not too.
What's some stuff that was like you got and then went on the selling block.
I also have a I mean the diet was record speed but yeah.
I was record speed.
I have to open my look at my muff sent messages.
I wish I was like like a like modular grid had a versioning so I could go back and look
at like no three versions ago that's what I that's what I thought I had or thought I
wanted or hadn't clearly don't have that anymore.
Yeah when I stumble across screenshots of previous set up something like what is this
completely different.
Why did I think that was okay.
Yeah.
I feel like I'm just getting like my use to this modular setup too and like all these
modules and now it's like kind of transparent.
Is there anything else on the list that we wanted to cover?
We did want to talk about the coma.
Oh yeah let's do that.
Field kit.
As a kick.
It was a kickstarter.
It's still going.
Yes.
Are you sure because you can't actually get you can't order any of the kits anymore.
Yeah I think they're sold out but the kickstarter I think is still active.
They hit their goal within 24 hours and since then they've like well surpassed it.
Right but they're not referring to anything that people have backed it.
I don't think it matters.
You can't just stop a project which is why people were pushing for like watch it go
up another thousand dollars just sitting here.
Yes dude it's just ridiculous.
$284,000.
Yeah their goal was 21,000.
Yeah it's insane.
I mean I think they added a whole nother batch.
It looks like you won't get it until May but I don't know if anybody will.
We're supposed to.
They sent an update to everyone who backed it so far saying like they're still keeping
on track with their original deadline or ship date which I think was March for anyone
who ordered like the first like 100 batch or something.
Super early bird kits are no longer available.
So anything beyond that I don't think it's going to be shipped to like May.
That's not too bad.
It does come in March.
The first ship there is in March and then the new ones.
Yeah you can still get those.
So field recording mixed in with you know noise mixing feedback like all this little
package.
Yeah it's got the radio tuners in there.
This is cool.
I'll hop on it you know and then like I hit refresh the next day so came back to work and
like just refresh the page to see how it was doing.
It was like it just blew off.
That's awesome.
Holy shit.
There's a lot of people out there interested in making some noise.
I think that's fucking cool.
I don't even know what else you would use that for.
Like that is a noise making kit.
Or maybe like an ambient.
I can see people using it to make ambient doing some more channel mix.
Like stand alone like one person in an art gallery with just that.
Like yeah maybe running it through a reverb pedal or something.
Yeah I can see that.
I think a lot of the audience might beat that.
I can't it's pure speculation.
I don't know who they are.
That wasn't really what I thought of when I saw it you know what I mean.
Like I saw it and I was like this would make a nice stand alone expansion to my modular.
I especially like the little motors and stuff like that.
Yeah yeah.
To have all that in one little package with a mixer and all the other added shit LFOs and
so I'm like that's fucking slick you know what I mean.
Yeah I know it's as well design.
Yeah it's well thought out and it's pretty cheap.
It's like affordable for people to get into whereas a lot of modular stuff is not.
Yeah true.
Like 300 bucks that's like the cost of one module and yet it does the things of like
six different models.
Yeah yeah.
Does it work off battery too?
That I don't know.
Because that would be amazing too to actually have a completely portable thing.
Nine volt PSU.
Yeah yeah so I guess it would work off a nine volt battery.
Fuck.
So you just walk around that thing headphones came out of nowhere too.
You know what I mean like once I saw it I was like oh I'm hyped for this.
You know what I mean.
Something that I had no idea even existed before now I'm like very looking forward to
March so I could play with it.
They're good designers.
All their shit is like that a sequence is still rad.
No thing I kind of lost over that's new that I won't get is that WMD performance mixer.
Yeah I think that's fucking great.
Yeah.
It's huge and it is like very expensive but yeah.
Isn't there an expansion expansion already for it?
Yeah with the mutes.
Yeah everything.
Yeah.
Because that was my we're looking at like I'll be cool there was mutes.
He's like we got you covered fam.
You want mutes?
We got fucking mutes.
But like stereo, aux-cent and return I think.
Yeah it just seems like.
Yeah I had a feeling I have a feeling like if I had that it would just like be my main
mixing console.
Yeah I mean not just the modular I'll probably run everything through that shit.
Yeah because it'll take flying level too.
Yeah it's fucking smart.
It is smart.
They're all VCA's too.
Because you could CB controller or each channel.
And the volume.
Damn it don't make me look at that thing again.
It's huge.
It's huge and I don't even think it could fit in that gap you have there.
Yeah.
It would have to be like in a separate fucking rack or something.
I mean ornament and crime.
Oh yeah.
He's got one coming.
Yeah that's that's the more I look at what it does the more crazy it seems.
And they still work on it.
Yeah.
Because it's all open source.
There are a few people working on it.
Yeah that's that's gonna be hard not to get.
If you're if you want to build it all yourself too.
Somebody was like it's under a hundred bucks I think.
Wait seriously.
If you're gonna you know it's all this is a pretty tiny surface mount soldering.
But yeah that's that's not a big deal.
Is it all easily is it stuff you can easily get is the bill material reasonable.
Yeah I think that only thing that's semi tricky are the screens but there it seems like there
are a bunch of suppliers.
Oh yeah.
Yeah notice someone asked us some questions.
In South Club.
Yeah on SoundCloud.
I'm in Muff someone asked to give more examples about feedback passion.
I would love the answer to that question.
But like it's kind of hard to do.
I don't know.
I just got to find it.
Yeah exactly.
I feel like feedback patching is kind of like circuit bending.
You know there is no definitive way to do it.
There's no.
But like circuit bending though there are these sort of like you're interested in this.
Here's like it started.
I think a lot of the feedback patching there's no good starting point.
You obviously have found it and people are trying to pick your brain.
I suppose I don't know it's just kind of hunting for things that sound good.
You know what I mean?
Certain modules certain places where feedback belongs.
I ran into one today.
Which was piston Honda into the Polaris but also molting the piston Honda out into the
filter CV in on the Polaris and that got some like really wet kind of shit going.
Oh it was kind of fun.
Nice.
The piston is definitely a feedback friendly module dude.
Yeah yeah.
Mark 1 and Mark 2 they're both they have some certain spots.
Mark 2 had the external input and then like the separate output.
Oh yeah.
So if you even if you don't have anything going into the input it sends out like a fucking
it's like a rectified version of the main output.
Oh so.
I think I'm going to read about that.
Yeah.
So I used to route that to anything else on the piston dude.
Like the piston is just a feedback fucking powerhouse like you send that back into like
the waveform CV input or the FM input or anything like that or even the fucking.
Inflation.
Yeah.
Exactly.
There we go.
Once you're getting feedback only around tour on tour Polaris a lot.
Okay.
I was feedbacking Polaris in different ways from other sources off the top of my head.
I remember I had the output of braids malted to an attenuator and then that was going back
into the FM input and I think the timber input very mildly on top of going to the FM on the
Polaris that it was being routed into.
Now when you were doing that did you have to could you just set the attenuator to the
value that was working or were you constantly playing with that.
Once you have it attenuated like through the mixer you don't have to fuck with it.
Oh gosh.
So it doesn't start getting squelchy.
It doesn't start getting out of control.
It can.
Like I had a sound check it carefully every night and listen to see if everything was still
where it was supposed to be and more of times than not it wasn't.
So like I had to just dial a bag and that's the crazy thing about feedback too.
You never always get the same thing that you heard the first time.
You know what I mean?
It's weird and it is a learning.
Yeah.
How about it?
You know it's the ghost in the machine.
You know what I mean?
It's turned your cold calculated machinery into something that's chaotic a living creature.
But yeah that's one example off the top of my head.
I'd have to think of more.
The herb herb I had that feeding back into itself.
It was like a no input and then I had CV hitting the mix on the dry wet on the feedback.
The herb even has the CV out which is generated from whatever the fuck is going on on the
module and then I can route that into things like the tilt.
So it's essentially generating its own CV into tilt which is adjusting the sound of
it which is in turn adjusting the CV of it.
So it's just like an endless weird CV loop.
It's trying to generate based on what it's doing.
You know it just little subtle things like that.
You know what I mean?
It didn't make like huge differences in the tone but just I guess one thing a lot of people
won't do maybe off the bat is put like an attenuator between the signal and instead
it will just route it to react and think like oh this is nuts.
Yeah you kind of got to attenuate sometimes.
A lot of times yeah.
Some shit you can just go nuts with it.
Yeah attenuation very key.
It's one reason why I still have blinds in there.
It's not the most exciting module but it's pretty helpful module when it comes to like
attenuating and even inverting feedback you know or whatever you want to feed into something
else.
I could probably give a shout out to Scott Harvissman on that one.
He kind of really opened my eyes to the world of feedback when I first started getting into
modular.
Like I didn't even really know what it was until you know just seeing how he always mentioned
that he liked the build modules that were feedback friendly.
You know what I mean?
Like he had the whole thing it was the Evan feedback console and things like that.
I had a bunch.
Yeah the Matrix mixer and the expansion for it which you could route a pedal into it
and then back out.
Like I had a bunch of pedals at the time and I never routed my pedals into itself before
and I was like oh fuck it I'm going to buy those modules and give it a shot and I did
it and they were just like open the world for me.
You know what I mean?
I was like this is cool you know what I mean?
That's awesome.
Suddenly pedals that I haven't even touched in like a year or two were now a staple in
my setup routing this thing into itself turning it into a fucking feedback machine.
[Music]
(upbeat music)
- The only good maths is a dead maths.
(laughing)